---
3ip: 5
title: Address Linking
author: oed@3box.io
discussions-to: https://chat.3box.io
status: Draft
created: 2019-05-09
---

## Simple Summary
Address linking is the process that describes how to link an ethereum address to a 3Box identifier. This 3IP describes how to do this for contract wallets and Externally Owned Accounts (EOA).

## Abstract
Currently 3Box supports linking EOAs. This is done by signing a message containing the DID of the user with their EOA. This signed message serves as a proof that the users EOA is linked to their 3Box account. With Contract wallets it's not possible to use the same mechanism because a contract has no private key. Instead we use [EIP 1271](http://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1271) which allows a contract to approve of some external signature. This 3IP describes how and where such a EIP 1271 proof should be stored to link a contract wallet to a 3Box account. It also describes how to update the current EOA links.

## Motivation
Many wallet projects in the ethereum ecosystem are moving to contract based wallets which provide more security and flexibility to end users. In order for 3Box to be used with all types of ethereum accounts there needs to be a way to link a contract wallet to a 3Box account. The current linking procedure also lacks a timestamp, which makes it impossible to determine which proof is the latest one if there is a conflict.

## Specification
Currently links are stored under the key `ethereum_proof` in a users public store. From now on we will refer to these proofs as *version 0*. The new *version 1* of link proofs has these common properties:
```js
{
  version: 1,
  type: <the type>
  message: <the message that is being signed (should contain the users DID, and the timestamp)>,
  timestamp: <the unix time when the message is signed>,
  signature: <hex encoded signature>
}
```
The message should look like this:
```
Create a new 3Box profile

-
Your unique profile ID is <did>
Timestamp: <timestamp>
```
The message should be signed with `personal_sign`. It is crucial that the `message` contains both the users DID as well as the current `timestamp`, in order to ensure the verifiability of the linking.

### EOA proofs
A proof for an EOA simply follows the specification above and has the type `'ethereum-eoa'`

### Contract proofs
ERC 1271 defines a method `isValidSignature` which takes two arguments `_data` and `_signature`, both of which are of the type `bytes`. We can represent these arguments as `string`. This proof would thus have the form:
```js
{
  version: 1,
  type: 'ethereum-contract'
  chainId: <the ID of the EVM based chain>,
  address: <the hex address of the contract>,
  message: <the message that is being signed (should contain the users DID, and the timestamp)>,
  timestamp: <the unix time when the message is signed>,
  signature: <hex encoded _signature>
}
```
The format of the `_signature` would depend on the contract wallet implementation, but it's always verifiable by calling `isValidSignature` on the contract.

### Storing the proof
*Version 1* of the link proofs should be stored as an IPFS object the hash of which is then stored in the root-store. The entry in the root-store is formated as follows:
```js
{
  type: 'address-link',
  data: <CID>
}
```
This allows us to store links to multiple addresses on different chains etc.

### Linking procedure
From a UX perspective the linking procedure should be simple. 3Box would simply request a signature of `message` from the contract wallet software. The resulting signature would be stored under `signature`.

## Rationale
The specification above solves a few different problems. We can now store multiple links to different EOAs and contract wallets since the proofs are now stored in the root-store. We added a version property to the proof object to easily distinguish between different proof formats. Contract wallets, as opposed to EOAs, usually only live on one blockchain. Therefore we introduced the `chainId` property which specifies which EVM compliant chain the contract lives on. This means that in theory 3Box would support linking to any EVM based chain. However support for each chain would need to be individually implemented in 3Box clients. Version 0 of the proofs didn't need to include the address that is being linked. This is because from the signature it is possible to derive the address. For contract wallets this is not true, so the `address` property is now needed. The `timestamp` is added as a measure to ensure that the user can change which DID the ethereum address points to, because it can be used as a way to decide the latest link in case there are multiple.

## Backwards Compatibility
Currently the *version 0* proofs are stored under the `ethereum_proof` key in the public store. This proof is verified when the `Box.getVerifiedAccounts` function is called. This function is called with a profile object that is returned from the `getProfile` rest API. We can add the link proofs to this call when needed.

## Implementation
No implementation is yet available for this 3IP.

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
