---
3ip: 2
title: Threads: A p2p communication protocol
author: oed@3box.io
discussions-to: https://chat.3box.io
status: Final
created: 2018-11-20
---

# Threads: A p2p communication protocol

# Overview

Threads is a feature that enables multiple users to post messages in a sequence. This allows users to communicate asynchronously in many forms. For example it could be used for comments, chats, status updates, etc. Threads uses the [orbitdb feed](https://github.com/orbitdb/orbit-db/blob/master/API.md#orbitdbfeednameaddress) to create a log of messages that is eventually consistent.

## Access control

Threads are allowed to have both moderators and members. Moderators can add other moderators, delete any posts in the thread and add members in a members only thread. Members can post in a members only thread.

## Thread creation

Threads are created inside of [Spaces](./3ip-1.md). A thread has a `name` which could be any string. For example the name could be the address of a contract if you want to create a thread for commenting on that contract. This essentially means that two different spaces could have their own threads with the same name. When a thread is created it gets the name `3box.thread.<space-name>.<thread-name>` for the orbitdb logstore. The main reason to keep threads separated by spaces is so that a dapp that only have permissions to space `A` should not be able to post in threads created in space `B`.

## API

All of the calls below assume that you have opened a space, for example:
```js
const space = box.openSpace('aGoodSpace')
```

**Join a thread:**
To join a thread simply call the `joinThread` method with the name of the thread to join.
```js
const thread = await space.joinThread(<name>)
```

A thread can also be given the moderation options when joining. You can pass `firstModerator`, a 3ID of the first moderator, and a `members` boolean which indicates if it is a members thread or not.

```js
const thread = await space.joinThread(<name>, { firstModerator: <firstModerator>, members: <members>})
```

Lastly a thread can be joined by its address.

```js
const thread = await space.joinThreadByAddress(<threadAddress>)
```

**Post to a thread:**
To post in a thread the `post` method is used. It can be called with any Object. This post is appended to the end of the thread.
By posting in a thread they automatically subscribe to it if not already subscribed.
```js
await thread.post(<Object>)
```

**Subscribe to a thread:**
Saves the thread to the space with the key `"thread-/threadaddress"`. Mostly this only needs to be called if you wish to subscribe to a thread that you have not posted to already.
```js
await space.subscribeThread(<threadAddress>, {name: <name>, firstModerator: <firstModerator>, members: <members>})
```

**Read a thread:**
This function returns an array of posts made in the thread. It's also possible to pass options to limit the number of posts or what posts are return.

```js
const posts = thread.getPosts()
```

**Delete a thread post:**
Attempts to delete a post with given id. Deletion completes if the user has the capabilities in the access controller to do so.

```js
await deletePost(<postID>)
```

**Add a moderator to a thread:**
Attempts to add a moderator to a thread. Returns id if sucessful, otherwise throws.

```js
await addModerator(<3ID>)
```

**Get moderator list:**
Returns list of moderators for a thread.

```js
const mods = await listModerators()
```

**Add a member to a thread:**
Attempts to add a member to a thread. Returns id if sucessful, otherwise throws. Throws if not member thread.

```js
await addMember(<3ID>)
```

**Get member list:**
Returns list of members for a thread. Throws if not member thread.

```js
const members = await listMembers()
```

**Watch for updates:**
When we receive an update to the thread from the network, the provided function will get called.
```js
thread.onUpdate(() => {})
```

Add listener for when capabilities are updated (member or moderator added), the provided function will get called.

```js
thread.onNewCapabilities(() => {})
```

**Unsubscribe from a thread**
Removes the thread from the list of threads that the user is subscribed to.
```js
await space.unsubscribeThread(<address>)
```

**List threads the user is subscribed to**
Lists all threads that the user has interacted with. Returns a list of objects as { address, firstModerator, members, name}

```js
const threadNames = space.subscribedThreads()
```

### Threads REST API

Our REST API is also available for viewing threads when the user doesn't have a space opened.

```js
const threadData = await Box.getThread(<space-name>, <thread-name>, <firstModerator>, <members>)
```

```js
const threadData = await Box.getThreadByAddress(<thread-address>)
```
