---
3ip: 8
title: HD Path Simple Account Migration
author: oed@3box.io
discussions-to: https://chat.3box.io
status: Draft
created: 2019-07-01
requires: 7
---

## Simple Summary
Currently 3Box accounts get the seed used to derive the various keys from ethereum account signatures. This is incompatible with the HD Path implemented in the [IdentityWallet SDK](./3ip-7.md). This 3IP describes how these accounts can be migrated to support the new format, and how new accounts will utilize the HD Path directly.

## Abstract
By defining a common way to authenticate using a single ethereum signature, a common way to create new accounts with the [IdentityWallet SDK](./3ip-7.md) and migrate already existing accounts can be achieved. New accounts simply use the new account structure, while existing accounts make their old keys accessible with the new authentication method.

## Motivation
The purpose of the HD Path is to remove the need to sign a new message for each space that is being opened. However, existing accounts already have spaces that they've opened using signatures. To get a unified user experience these accounts needs to be migrated to support authentication based on the HD Path. There also needs to be a new signature used to authenticate to the users [HD Path](./3ip-3.md) seed.

## Specification
The HD Path spec relies on having one seed, `s0` from which all other keys are derived. In the current account setup there is one seed for the root-store and then one for each space. The basic approach of the migration is to encrypt the current seeds with the keys derived from `s0`. However if the account doesn't have any data stored in their 3box we should use the keys derived from `s0` directly.

There are two types of "consent messages" that are being signed by the user before the introduction of the [IdentityWallet SDK](./3ip-7.md):
1. To open root-store and main storage: `This app wants to view and update your 3Box profile.`
2. To open space with `name`: `Allow this app to open your ${name} space.`

Here 1. generates `root-seed` and 2. generates `space-seed`. Note that there is a separate seed for each space name.

The space is being stored in the root-store as an entry with the following format:
```js
{
  type: 'space',
  DID: <subDID of the space>,
  odbAddress: <orbitdb-address of the space DB>
}
```

### A new consent message
Each identity using the [IdentityWallet SDK](./3ip-7.md) has a random seed `s0`, this seed is encrypted and used as an [Authentication Method](./3ip-6.md). To do this we can't use the `root-seed` since that would allow that consent signature to access all spaces. Instead we sign a new consent message that is the following string:

```
Open 3Box
```

### Using the HD Path seed to encrypt previous seeds
From the HD Path keys for the root-store as well as for spaces can be derived from `s0`. The symmetric encryption key of the root-store path is used to encrypt `root-seed` and likewise but with the specific space path to encrypt any `space-seed`. The format of the data that is being encrypted is:
```js
{
  space: <space name>,
  seed: <seed>
}
```
for every `space-seed`, and for the `root-seed`:
```js
{
  root: true,
  seed: <seed>
}
```

### Storing additional auth-data for old spaces
The encrypted data from above needs to be stored in a way that it can be retrieved when the user opens their 3Box and spaces. They will be stored similarly to the regular [auth-data](./3ip-6.md) with one difference:
```js
{
  type: 'auth-data',
  migration: true,
  ciphertext: <the ciphertext of the encrypted seed>,
  nonce: <the nonce>
}
```

### Creating new spaces after migration
Any space that is being created after the migration has taken place should use the space key derived from `s0`. In order for the client software to know that it's a new space that doesn't require the old `space-seed` we add a version parameter to the space entry in the root-store. So all new space entries in the root-store will look like:
```js
{
  type: 'space',
  version: 1,
  DID: <subDID of the space>,
  odbAddress: <orbitdb-address of the space DB>
}
```

## Rationale
This 3IP describes how the previous seeds of an account can be accessed from a universal seed that utilize the HD Path. In web browsers this seed would be stored and accessed only in an account iframe, where access control can be managed so that dapps never get access to any secrets of the account. Wallets that use the [IdentityWallet SDK](./3ip-7.md) also get the same benefit. By storing the additional encrypted seed as auth-data they will get passed along to the IdentityWallet SDK and can be decrypted by it to generate the correct keys in all circumstances.

## Backwards Compatibility
This 3IP basically makes sure that there is backwards compatibility to the [IdentityWallet SDK](./3ip-7.md).

## Implementation
No implementation is yet available for this 3IP.

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
